issue tracking system

An issue tracking system (also ITS, trouble ticket system, support ticket, request management or incident ticket system) 
is a computer software package that manages and maintains lists of issues.
Issue tracking systems are generally used in collaborative settings—especially in large or distributed collaborations—but
can also be employed by individuals as part of a time management or personal productivity regime. 
These systems often encompass resource allocation, time accounting, priority management, and oversight workflow in addition
to implementing a centralized issue registry.

In the institutional setting, issue tracking systems are commonly used in an organization's customer support call center to
create, update, and resolve reported customer issues, or even issues reported by that organization's other employees.
A support ticket should include vital information for the account involved and the issue encountered. An issue tracking system
often also contains a knowledge base containing information on each customer, resolutions to common problems, and other such data.


Functions
Issue-tracking systems fulfill different functions, in particular:

Entering of dysfunctions, errors and requests (e.g. manually or by e-mail Response Management Systems)
Distribution and assignment of issues to persons in charge
Monitoring of handling, time spent and quality of work
Ensuring the observation of internal processes by forced control with help of workflows
Statistical analysis of the number of tickets
Automatic generation of tickets by alarming systems, e.g. network monitoring
Fulfillment of external service agreements (Service Level Agreement, SLA)
Systematic collection of questions and answers for FAQs
Assignment of a priority to each issue based on the overall importance of that issue, the customer, date of submission, SLA
Containing a detailed descriptions of the problem being experienced, attempted solutions or workarounds, and other relevant 
information Maintaining of a history of each change



Workflow
An example scenario is presented to demonstrate how a common issue tracking system would work:

A customer service technician receives a telephone call, email, or other communication from a customer about a problem.
Some applications provide built-in messaging system and automatic error reporting from exception handling blocks.

The technician verifies that the problem is real, and not just perceived. The technician will also ensure that enough information
about the problem is obtained from the customer. This information generally includes the environment of the customer, 
when and how the issue occurs, and all other relevant circumstances.

The technician creates the issue in the system, entering all relevant data, as provided by the customer.

As work is done on that issue, the system is updated with new data by the technician. Any attempt at fixing the problem 
should be noted in the issue system. Ticket status most likely will be changed from open to pending.

After the issue has been fully addressed, it is marked as resolved in the issue tracking system.

If the problem is not fully resolved, the ticket will be reopened once the technician receives new information from the customer. 
A Run Book Automation process that implements best practices for these workflows and increases IT personnel effectiveness is
becoming very common.

